Add multiple cookie header tolerance suggestions & length limit warnings (#2804)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-rfc6265bis.md

cookie-string = cookie-pair *( ";" SP cookie-pair )
~~~

> While Section 5.4 of {{RFC9110}} does not define a length limit for header

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While {{Section 5.4 of RFC9110}} does not define a length limit for header
```

fields it is likely that the web server's implementation does impose a limit;

> many popular implementations have default limits of 8K. Server SHOULD avoid

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
many popular implementations have default limits of 8K. Servers SHOULD avoid
```

Author: Thanks for that catch

setting a large number of large cookies such that the final cookie-string
would exceed their header field limit. Not doing so could result in requests
to the server failing.

Servers MUST be tolerant of multiple cookie headers. For example, an HTTP/2
{{RFC9113}} or HTTP/3 {{RFC9114}} connection might split a cookie header to

> improve compression. Servers are free to determine what form this tolerance

Reviewer 3: Commenting on the line above, the `connection` doesn't do the splitting per se. Instead, the protocol allows the user agent to split the cookie. As a server you have to accept the split cookie when processing, and then move on to figuring out your tolerance policy (as you're covering in the new text)

Author: Are you asking that the phrase `...connection might split a cookie header...` be changed?

Reviewer 2: Perhaps s/connection/client or intermediary/?

Author: Sounds good to me

takes. For example, the server could process each cookie header individually
or the server could concatenate all the cookie headers into one and then
process that final, single, header. The server should be mindful of any

> header field limits when deciding which approach to take.

Reviewer 3: It might be besides the point right at this point in the text, but something common in my experience is for a reverse proxy to do H2 or H3 termination. It might tend to pick some strategy such as merging, in order to build a compliant single cookie that is forwards. 

Such a proxy might not validate the cookie in any way - not length nor content. Instead, it passes on this jumbo cookie that then fails at the origin.

This can be surprising to the origin admin. They might have followed the set-cookie advise and might control the UA to ensure that cookie splitting is happening. But somewhere along the chain the cookies are getting merged, leading to some size limit check somewhere failing.

Reviewer 2: If we want to address it here, perhaps something like:

> For example, the server could process each cookie header individually. Alternatively, the server or an intermediary could concatenate all the cookie headers into one and then process/forward that final, single, header. The server and any intermediaries should be mindful of any header field limits when deciding which approach to take.

Author: I added a note that intermediaries should make large headers. While it'd be great if intermediary implementation followed that advice I think there is a benefit in giving a server's admin a hint as to why their requests might be failing and where to trying troubleshooting.

cookie-string = cookie-pair *( ";" SP cookie-pair )
~~~

While {{Section 5.4 of RFC9110}} does not define a length limit for header
fields it is likely that the web server's implementation does impose a limit;
many popular implementations have default limits of 8K. Servers SHOULD avoid
setting a large number of large cookies such that the final cookie-string
would exceed their header field limit. Not doing so could result in requests
to the server failing.

Servers MUST be tolerant of multiple cookie headers. For example, an HTTP/2
{{RFC9113}} or HTTP/3 {{RFC9114}} client or intermediary might split a cookie
header to improve compression. Servers are free to determine what form this
tolerance takes. For example, the server could process each cookie header
individually or the server could concatenate all the cookie headers into one
and then process that final, single, header. The server should be mindful of
any header field limits when deciding which approach to take.

Note: Since intermediaries can modify cookie headers they should also be
mindful of common server header field limits in order to avoid sending servers

> headers that they cannot process. For example, by concatenating multiple cookie
> headers into a single header larger than a server's limit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
headers that they cannot process. For example, concatenating multiple cookie
headers into a single header might exceed a server's size limit.
```

Let's fix this sentence fragment, but I'm fine with the message.

is computed for the HTTP request as defined in {{same-site-requests}}, and the
retrieval's type is "HTTP".

Note: While this spec requires that a single cookie-string be produced, a user

> agent may consider splitting large request headers within their {{RFC9110}}

Author: @reschke Not sure how you feel that I suggest implementers deviate from the http spec.

This problem isn't specific to cookies (even if cookies are much likely to encounter it) so I don't think this spec should directly suggest that the `cookie:` header should be split.

Reviewer 4: Is this a thing any implementer does at the moment? It seems different in kind from the H2/H3 quirks discussed above... It's not clear to me that making this suggestion is helpful, and that the developer-facing admonition to reduce the number and size of cookies above would be more appropriate to focus on.

If implementers take this action today, it might be better to define how exactly such a split should be made, and likewise to define exactly how servers should handle multiple headers. If implementers don't take this action today, let's not tacitly approve of a choice to do so in the future?

Reviewer 2: "While we require this, consider not following the requirement" feels very RFC 6919.

Author: Safari https://github.com/httpwg/http-extensions/issues/2541#issuecomment-1552101655 has been splitting the cookie header for a few years

Chrome does not and I don't believe Firefox does either (from my own testing)

Reviewer 5: Yes, Safari started splitting Cookie in iOS 14 and macOS 11 (2020). It has become a load-bearing optimization since several internal websites won't load otherwise.

I was not aware that neither Chrome nor Firefox does it.

Author: After consideration I think this note should be removed.

Reviewer: It might be worth a note to the opposite effect:

> Previous versions of this specification required that only one Cookie header fields be sent in requests.
> This is no longer a requirement. Some user agents split cookies across multiple header fields.
> See also {{Section 8.2.3 of ?RFC9113}} and {{Section 4.2.1 of ?RFC9114}}.

Author: I think that's a good way of phrasing it.
